STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS India and Bangladesh have a common land boundary of approximately 4096.7 kms. The India-East Pakistan land boundary was determined as per the Radcliffe Award of 1947.Disputes arose out of some provisions in the Radcliffe award, which were sought to beresolved through the Bagge Award of 1950. Another effort was made to settle these disputesby the Nehru-Noon Agreement of 1958. However, the issue relating to division of BerubariUnion was challenged before the Hon'ble Supreme Court. To comply with the opinion renderedby the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India, the Constitution (Ninth Amendment) Act, 1960 waspassed by the Parliament. Due to the continuous litigation and other political developmentsat that time, the Constitution (Ninth Amendment) Act, 1960 could not be notified in respect of territories in former East Pakistan (presently Bangladesh). 2. On 16th May, 1974, the Agreement between India and Bangladesh concerning the demarcation of the land boundary and related matters was signed between both thecountries to find a solution to the complex nature of the border demarcation involved. ThisAgreement was not ratified as it involved, inter alia, transfer of territory which requires a Constitutional Amendment. In this connection, it was also required to identify the precisearea on the ground which would be transferred. Subsequently, the issues relating todemarcation of un-demarcated boundary; the territories in adverse possession; and exchangeof enclaves were identified and resolved by signing a Protocol on 6th September, 2011, which forms an integral part of the Land Boundary Agreement between India and Bangladesh,1974. The Protocol was prepared with support and concurrence of the concerned StateGovernments of Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and West Bengal. 3. Accordingly, the Constitution (One Hundred and Ninteenth Amendment) Bill, 2013 which proposes to amend the First Schedule of the Constitution, for the purpose of givingeffect to the acquiring of territories by India and transfer of territories to Bangladesh throughretaining of adverse possession and exchange of enclaves, in pursuance of the aforesaidAgreement of 1974 and its Protocol entered between the Governments of India andBangladesh. 4. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects. N EW DELHI; SALMAN KHURSHID. The 26th February , 2013. 15