4STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS The Judges of the Supreme Court are appointed under clause (2) of article 124 and the Judges of the High Courts are appointed under clause (1) of article 217 of the Constitution,by the President. The Ad-hoc Judges and retired Judges for the Supreme Court are appointedunder clause (1) of article 127 and article 128 of the Constitution respectively. The appointment of Additional Judges and Acting Judges for the High Court is made under article 224 and theappointment of retired Judges for sittings of the High Courts is made under article 224A ofthe Constitution. The transfer of Judges from one High Court to another High Court is madeby the President after consultation with the Chief Justice of India under clause (1) of article222 of the Constitution. 2. The Supreme Court in the matter of the Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association Vs. Union of India in the year 1993, and in its Advisory Opinion in the year 1998in the Third Judges case, had interpreted clause (2) of article 124 and clause (1) of article 217of the Constitution with respect to the meaning of “consultation” as “concurrence”.Consequently, a Memorandum of Procedure for appointment of Judges to the SupremeCourt and High Courts was formulated, and is being followed for appointment. 3. After review of the relevant constitutional provisions, the pronouncements of the Supreme Court and consultations with eminent Jurists, it is felt that a broad based NationalJudicial Appointments Commission should be established for making recommendations forappointment of Judges of the Supreme Court and High Courts. The said Commission wouldprovide a meaningful role to the judiciary, the executive and eminent persons to present theirview points and make the participants accountable, while also introducing transparency inthe selection process. 4. The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-first Amendment) Bill, 2014 is an enabling constitutional amendment for amending relevant provisions of the Constitution and forsetting up a National Judicial Appointments Commission. The proposed Bill seeks to insertnew articles 124A, 124B and 124C after article 124 of the Constitution. The said Bill alsoprovides for the composition and the functions of the proposed National JudicialAppointments Commission. Further, it provides that Parliament may, by law, regulate theprocedure for appointment of Judges and empower the National Judicial AppointmentsCommission to lay down procedure by regulation for the discharge of its functions, mannerof selection of persons for appointment and such other matters as may be considerednecessary. 5. The proposed Bill seeks to broad base the method of appointment of Judges in the Supreme Court and High Courts, enables participation of judiciary, executive and eminentpersons and ensures greater transparency, accountability and objectivity in the appointmentof the Judges in the Supreme Court and High Courts. 6. The Bill seeks to achieve the above objectives. N EW DELHI; RAVI SHANKAR PRASAD. The 8th August, 2014. ———— PRESIDENT'S RECOMMENDATION UNDER ARTICLE 117 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA ———— [Copy of letter No. K-11016/1/2009-US.II, dated 8 August, 2014 from Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Minister of Law and Justice to the Secretary-General, Lok Sabha] The President, having been informed of the subject matter of the proposed Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-first Amendment) Bill, 2014, recommends to the House the consideration of the Bill under article 117(3) of the Constitution of India.