THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY -FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984 THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY -FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984 Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Constitution (Fifty -third Amendment) Bill, 1984 (Bill No. 81 of 1984) which was enacted as THE CONSTITUTION (Fifty -first Amendment) Act, 1984 STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS The Meghalaya Legislative Assembly passed a resolution on 31st March, 1980 urging the Government of India to provide for reservation of seats for Scheduled Tribes in the State Legislative Assembly and also in the House of the People on the pattern obtaining in other States in the country. The State Government, therefore, recommended amendment of articles 330 and 332 of the Constitution. The Governments of Nagaland, Arunachal Pra desh and Mizoram have also supported the amendment in respect of their respective areas. It is, therefore, proposed to amend article 330 of the Constitution to provide for reservation of seats in the Lok Sabha for Scheduled Tribes in Meghalaya, Nagaland, A runachal Pradesh and Mizoram and article 332 to provide for similar reservation in the Legislative Assemblies of Nagaland and Meghalaya. The amendments have been proposed to meet the aspirations of the local tribal population. 2. This Bill seeks to achieve the above object. NEW DELHI; P. V. NARASIMHA RAO. The 22nd August, 1984. THE CONSTITUTION (FIFTY -FIRST AMENDMENT) ACT, 1984 [29th April, 1985.] An Act further to amend the Constitution of India. BE it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty -fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows: - 1. Short title and commencement. -(1) This Act may be called the Constitution (Fifty -first Amendment) Act, 1984. (2) It shall come into force on such date_670 as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gaze tte, appoint. 2. Amendment of article 330. -(1) In article 330 of the Constitution, in clause (1), for sub -clause (b), the following sub -clause shall be substituted, namely: - "(b) the Scheduled Tribes except the Scheduled Tribes in the autonomous districts of Assam; and". (2) The amendment made to article 330 of the Constitution by sub-section (1) shall not affect any representation in the House of the People until the dissolution of the House of the People existing at the commencement of this Act. 3. Amendm ent of article 332. -(1) In article 332 of the Con - stitution, in clause (1), for the words "except the Scheduled Tribes in the tribal areas of Assam, in Nagaland and in Meghalaya", the words "except the Scheduled Tribes in the autonomous districts of Assam " shall be substituted. (2) The amendment made to article 332 of the Constitution by sub-section (1) shall not affect any representation in the Legislative Assembly of the State of Nagaland or the Legislative Assembly of the State of Meghalaya until the di ssolution of the Legislative Assembly of the State of Nagaland or the Legislative Assembly of the State of Meghalaya existing at the commencement of this Act.