REGISTERED No. . Mg The Bazette of Titdia L] EXTRAORDINARY PART Y—Section 1 PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY No. 31] NEW DELHI, MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1963/ASVINA 1g, 1885 MINISTRY OF LAW (Legis'ative Department) New Delhi, the Tth October, 1963/ Asving 15, 1885 (Saka) The following Acts of Parliament received the assent of the Presi- dent on the 5th October, 1963, and are herehy pubiished for general information: — THE CONSTITUTION éFIb'l‘EENTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1963 [5th October, 1963] An Act further to amend the Constitution of India. Be it enacted by Parliament in the Fourteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows: — L This Act may be called the Constitution (Fifteenth Amend- Sbort titie. ment) Act, 1963, 2. In article 124 of the Constitution, after clause (2), the follow- Amendment ing clause shall be Inserted, namely:— ofarticle “(24) The age of a Judge of the Supreme Court shall be determined by such authority and in such manner as Parliament may by law provide.”. 3. In article 128 of the Constitution, after the words “Federal Amendment Court”, the worda “or who has held the office of a Judge of a High 33" Court and is duly qualified for appointment as a Judge of the Supreme Court” shall be inserted. 4. In erticle 217 of the Constitution— P : (o) in clause (1), for the words “sixty years”, the wards 217, “sixty-two years” shall be substituted; (349) 124, 350 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Paxr II (b) after clause (2), the following clause shall be inserted and shall be deemed always to have been inserted, namely:— “(8) If any question arises as to the age of a Judge of a High Court, the question shall be decided by the President after consultation with the Chief Justice of India and the decision of the President shall be final.”. Amendmeny 5. In article 222 of the Constitution, after clause (1), the follow- ofaride jng clause shall be inserted, namely:— . “(2) When a Judge has been or is s0 transferred, he shall, during the period he aerves, after the commencement of the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act, 1963, as a Judge of the other High Court, be entitled to receive in addition to his salary such compensatory allowance as may be determined by Parliament by law and, until so determined, such compensatory allowance as the President may by order fix.”. Amesdment 6, In article 224 of the Constitution, in clause (3), for the words 234, “gixty years”, the words “sixty-two years” shall be substituted. Insertion of 7, After article 224 of the Constitution, the following article shall ::,fﬂtk be inserted, namely:— Appolnt- “224A. Notwithstanding anything in this Chapter, the Chief e Justice of a High Court for any State may at any time, with the Judges at previous consent of the President, request any person who has tttigs of held the office of a Judge of that Court or of any other High Court to sit and act as a Judge of the High Court for that State, and every such person so requested shall, while so sitting and acting, be entitled to such allowances as the President may by order determine and have all the jurlsdiction, powers and pri- vileges of, but shall not otherwise be deemed to be, a Judge of that High Court: Provided that nothing in this article shall be deemed to require any such person as aforesaid to sit and act as a Judge of that High Court unless he consents so to do.”, Amendment 8. In article 226 of the Constitution,— of atticle 226. (a) after clause (1), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:— “(1A) The power conferred by clauge (1) to issue directions, orders or writs to any Government, sutherity or person may also be exercised by any High Court exercising sec 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 351 jurisdiclion in relation to the territories within which the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises for the exercise of such power, notwithstanding that the seat of such Govern- ment or authority or the residence of such person is not within those territories”; (b) in clause (2), for the word, brackets and ﬁgure “clause (1), the words, brackets, figures and letter “clause (1) or clause (1A)” ghall be substituted. 9. .n article 297 of the Constitution, after the words “territorial waters”’, the words “or Lhe continental shelf” shall be inserted. 10. In article 311 of the Constitution, for clauses (2) and (8), the tollowing clauses shall be substituted, namel/:— “(2) No such person as aforesaid siall be dismissed or vemoved or reduced in rank except after an inquiry in which he has been informed of the charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of those charges and where it is proposed, after such inquiry, to impose on him any such penalty, until he has been given a reasonable opportunity of making representation on the penalty proposed, but only on the basis of the evidence adduced during such inquiry: Provided that this clause shall not apply— (a) where a person is dismissed or removed or reduced in rank on the ground of conduct which has led to his con- viction on a criminal charge; or (b) where the authority empowered to dismiss or re- move a person or to reduce him in rank is satisfied that for some reason, to be Tecorded by that authority in writing, it 18 not reasonably practicable to hold such inquiry; or (¢) where the President or the Governor, as the case may be, is satisfled that in the interest of the security of the State it is not expedient to hold such inquiry. (3) If, in respect of any such person as aforesaid, a question arises whether it ig reasonably practicable to hold such inquiry 128 18 referred to in clause (2), the decision thereon of the autho- rity empowered to dismiss or remove such person or to reduce him in ratk shall be final.”. 1L In article 316 of the Constitution, after clause (1), the follow- ing clause shall be inserted, namely: — “{1A) If the office of the Chairman of the Commission be- comes vacant or if any such Chairman is by reason of absence or Amepdment of article 297. Amendment of article 3. Anundmml 3 xs. 352 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Pagr II for any other reason unable to perform the duties of his office, those duties shall. until some person appointed under clause (1) 1o the vacant office hus entered on the duties thereof or, as the casc may be, until the Chairman has resumed his dutles, be performed by such one of the other members of the Commission as the President, in the case of the Union Commission or a Joint Commission, and the Governor of the State in the case of a State Commission, may appoint for the purpose.”. Amendment 12. In the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, in List I, in of he entry 78, after the word “organisation”, the brackets and words Schedule. “(including vacations)” shall be inserted and shall be deemed always to have been inserted. CONSTITUTION (SIXTEE AMENDMEN ACT, [6th October, 1963} An Act fi of Indisa. 8 it enacted Parliament \ in the F th Year of I Aet, 1963 Amend- 2. In article 19 of the Constitution; ent of (@) in clause \(2), after the wopds “i terests of” wdrds ty and integrity of India,” shall be inserted; L (b) in clauses (3) and (4), after\the words * 0"} the words “the spvereignty and infegrity of India or” shell be an oath or affirmation acording to the form set out for the purpose?n the Third Schefule;”. I | L