o s 3 (S 127/8 REGISTERED (NO. DION)121/88 prerd M - The Gazette of Judia G EXTRAORDINARY WEl [—&Y 1 PART N—Section 1 s @ swtte PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY & 73] Ak feen, abre, e, 21, 1891/avgRm 30, Tors No. 73] ___ NEW DELHT, SATURDAY, DECEMBUR 21, 1991/ AGRAHAYANA 3, 1913 & e % P T W at ot § TR B g W e o e o Separate paging I ghven to this Port In order that it puty be filed . e asepas compilation MINISTRY OF LAW, YUSTICE AND COMPANY AFFAIRS (Legislative Department) New Delhi, the 21st December, 1881/Agrahayana 30, 1913 (Sake) The following Act of Parliament received the assent of the President on the 2lst December, 1991, and is hereby ‘published for general inform mation: — THE CONSTITUTION (SIXTY-NINTH AMENDMENT) ACT, 1991 {215t December, 1981.1 An Act further to amend the Constitution of India. BE it enacted by Parliament in the Forty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:— Short 1. (1) This Act may be called the Constitution (Sixty-ninth v.i:l- Amendment) Act, 1081 . and com- (2) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government mence- may, by notification in the Officisl Gazette, appoint. went, 2 After article 238A of the Constitution, the following articles shall oy be inserted, namely: — articles 209AA and 239AB. 939AA. (1) As from the date of commencement of the Consti- gpecial tution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991 the Union territory provi- of Delhi shall be called the National Capital Territory of Delhi Sons (hereafter in this Part referred to as the Nationa] Capital Territory) pagt and the administrator thereof appointed under article 239 shall be “nefni. designated as the Lieutenant Governor. [S8] 1. (J=2-1892)Vide netdeabion No. S0 FEE) et 3)-1-19ay THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY ' [Pany - (2) (e) There shall be a Legislative Assembly for the National Capital Territory and the seats in such Assembly shall be filled by members chosen by direct election from territorial constituencies in the National Capital Territory. (b) The total number of seats in the Legislative Assembly, the number of seats reserved for Scheduled Castes, the division of the National Capital Territory into territorial constituencies (including the basis for such division) and all other matters relating to the functioning of the Leg'slative Assembly shall be regulated by law made by Parliament, (c) ThepmvlllonsotarﬂdumtomwdazDshﬂllpplyh relation to the National Capital Territory, the Legislative Asserably of the National Capital Territory and the members thereof as they apply, in relation to a State, the Legislative Assembly of a State and the members thereof respectively; and any reference in articles 828 and 320 to “appropriate Legislature” shall be deemed to be & reference to Parliament, - (3) (a) Subject to'the provisions of this Constitution, the Legls- lative Assemhly-hsﬂhzvepowerwmkehm for the whole or any pmottheNaﬁonﬂCapitalTerﬂtorywml respect to any of the matters enumerated in the State List or in the Concurrent List in s0 far as any such matter is applicable to Union territories except matters withrupeetmEntrlal,zandlBuftheStaﬁemtmdlnwmﬂ.Bﬁ and 66 of that List in so far as they relate to the said Eatries 1,2 and 18 (b) Nothing in sub-clause (a) shall derogate from the powers of Parlisment under this Constitution to make laws with respect to anymam!ornvn!mterﬂmryormypanthemot (c) 1 any provision of a law made by the Legislative Assembly mmmpmhnymmnwntwmwuﬂs{motahw made by Parliament with respect to that matler, ‘whether passed be;ﬁonoraﬂerﬂmlawmdabythe[gghlaﬂvebmxbly,orotm earlier law, other than a law made by the Legislitive Assembly, then, in either case, the law made by Parliament, or, as the case may be, such earlier law, shall prevail and the law made by the Legislative Anemblyshaﬂ,tothamtotthenpmmy,bewdd: Provided that if any such law made by the Legislative Assembly has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent, such law shall prevail in the National Capital Territory: Provided further that nothing in this sub-clause shall prevent Paﬂhmikumeucﬁngatanyﬁ.memthw&thrspecthm umemattermmdingalswndd!ngw.:mmding. varying or re- (4) There shall be a Council of Ministers consisting of not more than ten per cent. of the total number of members in the Legislative Assembly, with the Chief Minister at the head to aid and advise the Licutenaut Gaovernor in {te oxercise of his functions in relation to matters with respect to which the Legislative Assem-~ Sxc. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 3 hlyhaxpowertomxhelaws,emptinsofarashnis,byorunder any law, required to act in his discretion: Provided that in the case of difference of opinion between the Lieutenant Governor and his Ministers on any matter, the Lieutenant Governor ghall refer it to the President for decision and act accord- ing to the decision given thereon by the President and pending suck decision it shall be competent for the Lieutenant Governor in any case where the matter, in his opinion, is so urgent that it is necessary for him to take immediate action, to take such action or to give such direction m the matter as he deems necessary. (5) The Chiet Minister shall be appointed by the President and the other Ministers shall be appointed by the President on the ad- vice of the Chief Minister ard the Ministers shall hold office during the pleasure of the President. (6) The Council of Ministers ghall be collectively responsible to the Legislative Assembly. (7) Parliament may, by law, make provisions for giving effect to, or supplementing the provisions contained in the foregolng clauses and for all matters incidental or consequential thereto. (8) The provisions of article 239B shall, eo far as may be, apply in relation to the National Capital Territory, the Lieutenant Gover- nor and the Legislative Assembly, as they apply in relation to the Union territory of Pondicherry, the administrator and its Legsla- ture, respectively; and any reference in that article to “clause (1) of article 239A” shall be deemed to be a reference to this article nr article 239AB, us the case may be. 230AB, If the President, cn receipt of a report from the Lieute- nant Governor or otherwise, ig satisfied— (@) that a situation has arisen in which the administration of the National Capital Territory cannot be carried on in accord- ance with the provisions of article 289AA or of any law made in pursuance of that article; or (b) that for the proper adminisiration of the National Capital Territory it is necessary or expedient so to do, the President may by order suspend the operation of any provision of article 239AA or of all or sny of the provisions of any law made in pursuance of that article for such period and subject to such conditions as may be specified in such Iaw and make such incidental and consequential provisions as may appear to him to be necessary or expedient for administering the National Capital Territory in accordance with the provisions of article 239 and article 239AA.". V. S. RAMA DEVI, Secy. to the Govt. of India. mnmmmwvmnmmmmn.momnwnm AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELEY, 1991