W T TUER( )04 /0007/2003—05 REGISTERED NO, DLINJOY/0007/ 200305 I = m The Gazette of Mia EXTRAORDINARY -1 PART Il — Section 1 sfiree & vt PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY ®1] i feel, ypwem, v 2, 2004 9 12, 1925 No.1) NEW DELH], FRIDAY, JANUARY 2, 2004/ PAUSA 12, 192§ wmﬂﬁlwdﬂ#mﬂﬁﬁﬁﬁmmtwimmwl Sepacate paging is given to this Part io order that it may be filed a5 a stparate compilation. ' MINISTRY OF LAW AND JUSTICE ’ (Legislative Department) New Delhi, dﬂe_d the 2nd January, 2004/Pawsa 12, 1925 (Saka) The following Act of Parliament received the assent of the President on the It January, 2004 and is hereby published for general information:—~ THE CONSTITUTION (NINETY-FIRST AMENDMENT) - - ACT, 2003 o . _[1stJaruary, 2004.] An Act further to amend the Constitution of India. Bk it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:— - 1. This Act may be called the Constitution (Ninety-first Amendment) Act, 2003, Short tile. 2. In article 75 of the Constitution, after clause (1), the following clauses shallbe Amendment inserted, namely:— ofarticle 75. “(1A) The total number of Ministers, including the Prime Minister, in the Council of Ministers shall not exceed fiftcen per cent. of the total number of members of the House of the People. (1B) A member of either House of Parliament belonging to any political party wheo is disqualified for being 8 member of that House under paragraph 2 «of the Tenth Schedule shall also be disqualified to be appointed as a Minister under clause (1) for duration of the period commencing from the date of his disquatification till the date on which the term of his office as such member would 2 ‘THE GAZETTEOF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [ParT 11— expire or where he contests any election to either House of Parliament before the expiry of such period, till the date on which he is declared elected, whichever is cartier.”, Amendment of 3. In article 164 of the Constitution, after clause (1), the following clauses shall be article 164, inserted, namely:— “(1A) The total number of Ministers, including the Chief Minister, in the Council of Ministors in a State shall not exceed fifteen per cc.-.. of the total number of members of the Legislative Assembly of that State: Provided that the number of Ministers, including the Chief Minister, ina State shall not be less than twelve: Provided farther that where the tolal number of Ministers, including the Chief Minister, in the Council of Ministers in any State at the commencement of the Constitution (Ninety-first Amendment) Act, 2003 exceeds the said fifteen per cent. or the number specified in the first proviso, as the case may be, then, the total number of Ministers in that State shall be brought in conformity with the provisions of this clause within six moaths from such date as the President may by public notification appoint. . (1B) A member of the Legislative Assembly of a State or either House of the Legislature of a State having Legislative Council ‘beionging to any political party who is disqualified for being a member of that House under paragraph 2 of the Tenth Schedule shall also be disqualified to be appointed as & Minister under clause (1) for duration of the period commencing from the date of his disqualificstion till the date on which the term of his officc as such member would expire or where he contests any election to the Legislative Assembly of a State or ither House of the Legislature of a Stato having Legislative Council, as the case may be, before the expiry of such period, tift the date on which he is declared clected, whichever is earlier.”. Insertion of 4. After article 361A of the Constitution, the following articte shall be inserted, new article pnamely:— Disqualifics- +361B. A member of a House belonging to any political party who is tion for disqualified for being a member of the House under paragraph 2 of the Tenth sppoiniment Schodule shait also be disqualified to hold any remunerative political post for tvapolibenl duration of the period commencing from the date of his disqalification till the post. dste on which the term of his office as such member would expire or till the date on which he contests an clection to a House and s declared elected, whichever is earlier. ° Explanation.—For the purposes of this article,— (a) the expression “House” has the meaning assigned to it in clause (a) of paragraph 1 of the Tenth Schedule; (b) the expression “remunerative political post” means any office— (/) under the Government of India or the Government of a State where the salary or remuneration for such office is paid out of the public fevenue of the Government of India or the Government of the State, as the case may be; or * (if) under a body, whether incorporated or not, which is wholly or partially owned by the Government of India or the Government of asuua_ndmelduynrnmmmfnrmchoﬁﬁee is paid by such body, except where such salary or remuneration paid is compensatory in nature.’. Sec. 1] THE GAZETTEOF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 3 5. In the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution,— Amendment f the Tenth (a) in paragraph [, in clause (5), the words and figure “paragraph 3 or, asthe ;nln..ls. case may be,"” shall be omitted; (5)in paragraph 2, in sub-paragraph (1), for the words and figures “paragraphs 3,4 and 5", the words and figures “paragraphs 4 and 5" shall be substituted; (¢) paragraph 3 shall be omitted. T.K. VISWANATHAN, - Secy. to the Govt. of India. "PRINTED BY THE MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MINTO ROAD, NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUELICATIONS, DELH, 2004. MGIPMRAND--4519G3—03-01-2004.